#summary Installation of 0.7 RC2 to 0.9 RC5
#labels Featured

#sidebar TableOfContents 

  * [ChangeLog ChangeLog]
  * [http://openmeetings.googlecode.com/files/red5-openmeetings-rc5.zip Version 0.9 RC5]
  * [http://download.openmeetings.de/vmware_openmeetings_moodlepack_r1852.tgz VMWare Image (incl. Moodle Integration)] (it includes RC1 NOT RC2)
  * [http://liberamemoria.blogspot.com/2009/02/instalando-openmeetings-07-rc-2-en.html Espanol Version for Debian Installation]
  * [http://aitinet.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/08/TUTORIAL-PARA-INSTALACAO-DO-RED5-E-OPENMEETINGS-NO-LINUX-DEBIAN-LENNY-51.pdf Portuguese Version for Debian Installation of 0.9 RC1] 
  * [VMImageRev2056] 
  * [UpdateOpenMeetings Update from Previous Versions]

= System Requirements (Server Side System Requirements!) =

  * Minimalistic requirement (without Document Converters, Recorder and Upload feature)  1GHz CPU 1 GB RAM
  * Recommended requirement 2x/4x 2GHz ++ CPU (32 or 64Bit) 4GB RAM. If you have a 64Bit Operating System check if there is a !OpenOffice 64Bit Version [http://download.openoffice.org/other.html#de available for your OS]

= Requirements =

  * Database available (MySQL,Postgres,... MSSQL,Oracle,DB2 see [http://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/core/3.3/reference/en/html/session-configuration.html#configuration-optional-dialects full-list]) It is recommended to make/use an empty database/scheme
  Database MUST listen and allow TCP/IP connections! And the default character-set/scheme must be UTF8! _For example_ a fresh MySQL does *not* listen on TCP/IP by default and has *not* utf8 as default-character-set defined. You have to change these settings and restart your database server so that changes take effect (mysql-config is in my.cnf). Postgres for example does also not listen by default on TCP/IP but uses by default UTF8 (since postgres 7 or 8). To change Postgres listening on TCP/IP check postgresql.conf and add your host to the pg_hba.conf. In Postgres you need to create a database using *template1* cause template1 create automatically a scheme called *public* which is needed (and since postgres 8 you can use several schemes inside one database public is the default one [http://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.2/interactive/ddl-schemas.html#DDL-SCHEMAS-PATH Postgres-Docs]).
  * *!OpenOffice-Service* started and listening on port 8100 (see OpenOfficeConverter, this is not necessary for installation but for running later on)
  * Installed *!ImageMagick* (this is not necessary for installation but for running later on), you can get more information on http://www.imagemagick.org regarding installation. The instructions for installation can be found there http://www.imagemagick.org/script/binary-releases.php, however on most linux systems you can get it via your favorite package managers (apt-get it)
  * Installed *!GhostScript* (this is not necessary for installation but for running later on), you can get more information on http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/ regarding installation. The instructions for installation can be found there, however on most linux systems you can get it via your favorite package managers (apt-get it).
  * Installed *SWFTools* (this is not necessary for installation but for running later on), you can get more information on http://www.swftools.org/ regarding installation. Some of the Linux distributions already have it in there package manager see http://packages.debian.org/unstable/utils/swftools), the recommended version of *SWFTools* is 0.9 as prior version have a big that does lead to wrong object dimensions in the Whiteboard
  * Install *FFMpeg* (this is not necessary for installation but if you want to test the recording you have to install it
  * MAC OSx / Linux Users => Get Flash Player 10 Beta!! It fixes the CPU Problem for Streaming Video => http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/flashplayer10/

= Install !OpenMeetings =
  # Download [http://openmeetings.googlecode.com/files/openmeetings_0_7_rc2.zip OpenMeetings including Red5] (recommended) or download the two packages separated [http://openmeetings.googlecode.com/files/openmeetings_07_rc2_wo.zip OpenMeetings Webapp only] and [http://openmeetings.googlecode.com/files/red5_snapshot_r3200.zip Red5 Snapshot]. If you download the two packages you have to place the !OpenMeetings webapp into the webapp-folder of Red5.
  # Unpack it (Please make sure that you use an up-to-date unzip-software) (and copy it somewhere in you system, do not start it from your Windows Desktop)
  # you have now a folder openmeetings_0_7_rc1
  # Prepare Database Settings - go to openmeetings_0_7_rc1/webapps/openmeetings/conf/hibernate.cfg.xml 
    * MySQL-Database-User: Rename `mysql_hibernate.cfg.xml` to `hibernate.cfg.xml` and alter following config values in (`mysql_`)`hibernate.cfg.xml`
     {{{
		<property name="connection.username">root</property>
		<property name="connection.password"></property>

		<property name="connection.url">jdbc:mysql://YOUR_HOSTNAME/YOUR_DATABASE</property>	
     }}}
    If you have problems in connecting your database, a common error is that the Database does not listen to TCP/IP Connection, or you properly need to replace the jdbc-driver with the one for your mysql-version, see http://www.mysql.com/products/connector/j/ for drivers and replace the mysql-connector-java-3.1.14-bin.jar in openmeetings/WEB-INF/lib with the one you have downloaded. If your mysql server is not located in localhost make sure the mysql-server is listening on that network-interface.
    Of course you must alter `YOUR_HOSTNAME/YOUR_DATABASE` to fit your needs for example to:`jdbc:mysql://localhost/openmeetings`
    * Postgres-Database-Users: Rename `postgres_hibernate.cfg.xml` to `hibernate.cfg.xml` and alter following config values in (`postgres_`)`hibernate.cfg.xml`
    {{{
		<!-- User  / Password -->
		<property name="connection.username">postgres</property>
		<property name="connection.password"></property>
		
		<property name="connection.url">jdbc:postgresql://YOUR_HOSTNAME/YOUR_DATABASE</property>	
    }}}
    If you go problems in connecting your database you properly need to replace the jdbc-driver with the one for your postgres-version, see http://jdbc.postgresql.org/download.html for drivers and replace the postgresql-8.2-504.jdbc2.jar in openmeetings/WEB-INF/lib with the one you have downloaded. Don't forget that the encoding of the database must be UTF8!
    Of course you must alter `YOUR_HOSTNAME/YOUR_DATABASE` to fit your needs for example to:`jdbc:postgresql://localhost/openmeetings`
    * Any-Database-Users: Rename `any_hibernate.cfg.xml` to hibernate.cfg.xml. 
    Alter the following config values to fit your needs:
    {{{
		<!-- User  / Password -->
		<property name="connection.username">user</property>
		<property name="connection.password">*****</property>
		
		<!-- Database Settings -->
		<property name="connection.driver_class">org.postgresql.Driver</property>
		<property name="dialect">org.hibernate.dialect.PostgreSQLDialect</property>
		<property name="connection.url">jdbc:postgresql://localhost/openmeetings</property>	
		
    }}}
    You can see a list of available _dialect_'s here [http://www.hibernate.org/hib_docs/reference/en/html/session-configuration.html#configuration-optional-dialects hibernate-SQL-dialects]. You must download the driver for your database and copy it to _$OPENMEETINGS-HOME/WEB-INF/lib_
  # (Re)start Red5 (The table's will be automatically created by hibernate if there is something wrong with your database values you will see errors in Red5 logfile 
  # go to the Installer by accessing it via browser: http://localhost:5080/openmeetings/install and follow the instructions 

After Running the Installer all basics are installed. Now login and go to the Meeting-Rooms and check all features. You possibly will have some difficulties uploading files. Check if !OpenOffice is really running, swftool, !ImageMagick (including !GhostScript, FFMpeg) is available on  your System-Path (or your customize the path in the Configuration).

= Hidden and experimental features =

  * rtmps (using of SSL) => you find in the config.xml some value to enable the client to first try to connect to rtmps (useSSL param) .. NOTE: Flash Player only on Windows have the rtmps feature and you will need to clear your browser cache to force a reload of the updated config.xml
  * disable recording in config.xml => the recording feature is quite beta. You can disable it in the config.xml
  * if you resize your own video-pod in the conference much larger and then synchronize  the stream, all clients will get a better picture (it also needs more bandwidth, as it will take the actual new height / width numbers to publish your stream)
  * there are some hidden emoticons (for example (activate)), you might want to add your own ones [http://openmeetings.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/webapp/webapp/openmeetings/public/emoticons/emotes.xml Full List]

= Integration, Single Sign On and LDAP =

  * To Integrate !OpenMeetings it is recommended to use the [http://code.google.com/p/openmeetings/wiki/SoapMethods SOAP-Gateway]
  * Regarding LDAP-Configuration see the Installer Script and sample Configuration 

= using 3th Party Publishing Software, RTP-Streams or IP-Cams =

  * If you want to integrate 3th Party Software for publishing Live-Video you may have a look at [http://www.xuggle.com Xuggler]. There is no out of the Box solution but there are already people successfully publish their usual [http://www.red5wiki.com/wiki/SteamStream RTP-LiveStream] by using Xuggler

= Ports, NAT Settings, Customize =

  * Default Ports: 1935 (RTMP), 8088 (RTMP-Over HTTP), 5080 (HTTP), 4445 ([ODSP Desktop Sharing]), 8443 (RTMP over SSL)  for alternate Port settings have a look at red5/conf/red5.properties. Don't forget that you have also some port settings in the Client, see the red5/webapps/openmeetings/config.xml
  * Custom Colors, Default Language, see red5/webapps/openmeetings/config.xml
  * You may be able to run different red5 instances if you bind it to specific ports. 
  * Single Sing On, Integration => Use the Remote Gateway with the SoapMethods

= Service for Customization / Installation =

 * Need for a developer or Consultant? [http://code.google.com/p/openmeetings/wiki/Jobs Hire a Developer]

= Tips and Tricks =

  * To run openmeetings behind a Apache Web-Server you can try with apache mod_jk and mod_proxy
  * Watch the ScreenCast of 0.5.2/SVN-Version Basic Installation http://blip.tv/file/836696?filename=Kunthar-OpenmeetingsBasicInstallation696.flv 
  * French version of Installation Instructions: http://flash.54n.free.fr/?/Root/Debian/OpenMeetings-Installation
  * Use the Debug-Application: Enter in your browser http://$RED-HOST:$RED5-PORT/openmeetings/maindebug.lzx.lzr=swf8.swf for example http://localhost:5080/openmeetings/maindebug.lzx.lzr=swf8.swf
  * If you have Problems with conversion-jobs check your Red5-Log output. There will be error Messages which help you. You must install !OpenOffice, !ImageMagick, !GhostScript and SWFTools to run all conversion-Jobs correctly.
  * if you have problems in converting Files check the Batch-Scripts in $OPENMEETINGS_HOME/jod
  * If you want to use red5 as a service (without red5.bat), you need to move red5\wrapper\wrapper.exe to red5\wrapper.exe. Then change some path in conf\wrapper.conf (like ..\lib\foo.jar to lib\foo.jar). And finally change the register key in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Red5\ImagePath to point to the new wrapper.
  * you can query a Mysql Database to get the schema_collection by using this query: 
{{{
SELECT Table_name, TABLE_COLLATION FROM information_schema.tables WHERE table_schema = 'openmeetings' ORDER BY table_name DESC
}}}