#summary People who offer or who search Jobs around OpenMeetings
#labels Featured

  * [http://www.webbase-design.de Webbase-Design] <br/><br/>We offer core modification, Plugin development, Branding, Integration into your E-learning (Moodle or others) Platforms or Integration into your CMS/Portal/Intranet. I also offer Installation services as well as hosting for !OpenMeetings.<br/>
  My experience: 5++ years in Web-Application Development, !OpenLaszlo, Red5, Tomcat, Spring, Hibernate<br/>My Languages: AS1, AS2, AS3, LZX, JAVA, PHP<br/>

  Contact:<br/>
  Sebastian Wagner<br/>
  Haid-und-Neu-Straße 7<br/>
  76131 Karlsruhe<br/>
  0049 (0) 721 467 27328<br/>
  Mail: mailto:seba.wagner@gmail.com<br/>
  Jabber: seba _dot_ wagner _at_ gmail _dot_ com<br/>
  Web: http://www.webbase-design.de<br/>
  Skype: s.wagner1<br/>

  ==> [http://www.webbase-design.de/side/OpenMeetings%20Hosting.pdf Current Pricing for Installation and Services around OpenMeetings, contact us if you have any questions]

  || Package || Description || Prizing ||
  || Installation Service || including Re-Branding (Logo change + color style in your CI) on your Harddware Minimal requirements: 2GB RAM 2GHz CPU (equals 100-200 concurrent conference users) Recommeded: 4GB Ram Dual Core 2++ GHz CPU (equals 500-1000 concurrent conference users) || 500 Euro ||
  *Prizing for Hosting and Maintaining your Servers*

  *Mid-Size (500-1000 concurrent Users)*
  Including Re-Branding (Logo change + color style in your CI)
  Including Moodle and SugarCRM installation and OpenMeetings integration
  500 Euro Setup Fee
  Hosting costs 600 Euro for 6 months, minimum duration 12 months, to be payed when the   contract starts.
  Total: 1700 Euro for 12 months including Setup Fee.
  The contract renews every 6 month for another 6 month.
  The Hosting includes continues upgrades to all new features and security patches of   OpenMeetings and 3th Party applications used in OpenMeetings.
  
  *Small-Size (50 concurrent Users)*
  Including Re-Branding (Logo change + color style in your CI)
  Including Moodle and SugarCRM installation and OpenMeetings integration
  500 Euro Setup Fee
  Hosting costs 400 Euro for 6 months, minimum duration 12 months, to be payed when the   contract starts.
  Total: 1300 Euro for 12 months including Setup Fee.
  The contract renews every 6 month for another 6 month.
  The Hosting includes continues upgrades to all new features and security patches of OpenMeetings and 3th Party applications used in OpenMeetings.

  * Jai Gupta, contact: http://www.jaigupta.com,
  I also have 3 year experience in e-learning including 2 year experience on Moodle.

  * Telecom Express, feel free to create an account and file a support ticket [http://expressaas.com:8080 here].
  We provide installation and tuning of Openmeetings, integration with your CRM, CMS and domain controller. Мы предлагаем техническую поддержку на русском языке, включающую установку продукта и интеграцию с имеющимися службами коллективной работы.
  <br/>
 * Oliver Becherer<br/><br/> Installation, Integration, Modification and Customization of OpenMeetings<br/>mailto:ich@oliver-becherer.name<br/>skype:smoeker

  * Roberto Torresani<br/><br/>My development's offer is about Plugin for Integration into E-learning, CMS Platforms, other systems. <br/>I also offer Installation services and hosting for !OpenMeetings.<br/>

  Contact:<br/>
  Roberto Torresani<br/>
  Posit s.c. - c/o Polo Tecnologico<br/>
  Via Solteri 38<br/>
  38100 Trento (Italy)<br/>
  ++39 (0) 461 1865842<br/>
  Mail: erreti _ata_ gmail _dota_ com<br/>

 