#summary One-sentence summary of this page.


<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />


== !OpenMeetings Paypal Integration and Invoicing Sample Video Key Features ==

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUBwM4DRWG4"/>


== License Options (Pay-per-Minute or Volume Flatrate) ==

The user can buy either minutes and every time he enters a conference room a counter will start and his profile will be updated.
It is not possible to cheat by accessing a Room with the same account at the same time.

Sending Invitations or creating Scheduled Meetings via the Calendar is not possible for Pay-per-Minute Users. Otherwise those Users could send themself a invitation and in that way get unlimited access to meeting rooms.

The other option for user is to buy a Volume-Flatrate. Either 3 or 6 months unlimited access to the system. Users with Volume-Flatrate can also send Invitations and create meetings via the calendar.

== Payment Options (Paypal with Credit Card or Direct Debit) ==

As soon as the user clicks *Checkout with Paypal* he is processed to Paypal's Website. Depending on his country he has different payment options. All countries have the major Credit Cards. For example on openmeetings.de => Users from Germany can also pay by direct debit, as the Paypal account on openmeetings.de is in german.

The hole payment process is multi-language.

== Invoice and Transaction Status ==

The user will receive an Email as soon as the Payment is received on the Paypal account.
That usually takes only 30-60 seconds.
The email to the buying user contains also the Invoice. There are different Invoices generated based on the country of the user.

There is also a list of past and present transactions and the possibility to download invoices of past transactions in the user profile.

== Where to get the Paypal Module ==

Contact:
Sebastian Wagner
Haid-und-Neu-Straße 7
76131 Karlsruhe
++49 (0) 721 255 1990
Mail: seba dot wagner at gmail dot com
Jabber: seba dot wagner at gmail dot com
Web: http://www.webbase-design.de
Skype: s.wagner1